Hello, everyone.
Let's see this problem girl grouping from the education contest.
So this is a very nice people with bad math problem already hitting you.
The.
Yeah.
So as we can see and it's very less and generally that's the indicator that it will kind of use bit
mosque in it.
So it's a small thing, but let's see the problem statement and see how it is it.
So first we have we have and it's what each a comedy like basically for each rabbit the complete compatibility
of i.e. and derived is given by an integer 80.
So here is zero because the diagonal will be zero in the matrix that we obtain.
And it is a symmetric matrix that means compatibility of IGC with compatibility of G8.
Good for each.
Yeah.
Now that it is dividing the end words into some groups.
So through the person who's dividing this and average into some groups, so he's grouping them rabbits.
So as the name of the problem.
Now each rabbit must belong to exactly one group.
So this is the important concept here.
It.
It's basically we're making some partitions.
We can say that if we are making some partitions or.
But the problem is when we talk about partitions, the order of the elements is fixed, right?
That this is the order in which elements are at the end we are making partitions, but here the order
of the elements is not fixed.
Of course we are making some groupings, but we also have to keep in.
Keep in mind that the order can also change, correct?
Let me quickly share what I mean from that.
When we talk about partition problems, we see that let's say this is the order.
This is the order.
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight.
And when we are partitioning them, we say, okay, this is one partition, this isn't partition and
this isn't partition, correct?
But in this case we are doing the same thing, but instead the order can also change.
That is, it can also be this.
Right.
This can be another partition.
I think that means the order of the groups can also change.
That means.
Yeah.
So.
But it's not a party symbol problem, but maybe a follow up depredation problem we can see.
And yeah.
So here he sees that dividing into some groups.
These individuals belong to exactly one group right after joining after grouping.
But each Hindu thought owns a comedy point.
If Robert and they belong to the same group, that's important to find Toro's maximum possible total
score.
But a beautiful problem.
Well, let's see.
Let's understand this.
Look, for example, in this example here, I can see this group will have zero.
What, zero, maximum possible total score would be zero for this group.
What about this group?
Part of the maximum possible total score for this group.
So we can see the maximum possible total score.
I mean, the total score of this group is nothing but 85.
Less.
836 less.
Five six.
Right.
So this is important.
Their compatibility plus their compatibility plus their compatibility.
Basically the compatibility of everyone in that group.
This will give me a zero again.
And this will give me a.
Even for as the so totally compatibility of this arrangement can be it three three +36 plus a56 plus
e one, four, eight.
Here we can see that the compatibility is negative as well.
Right?
If the compatibility can be negative, so will I ever get the maximum possible total score, which is
negative?
Think about this, we will not wait because if you are getting a maximum possible total score, which
is negative, then we can always group the elements in this way.
In the individual order.
Now, that means if I have this grouping.
Mandatory probiotics aid in this grouping, all of the comparatively zero.
So the maximum capacity here will be zero.
If all these elements had a negative compatibility with each other.
Correct.
So just to make sure that they don't get the answer, don't go negative.
Just wanted to hear this that it will never go negative eight.
To really solve this problem, much like the elevator problem we discussed in the private business section.
So the problem is very simple.
What we'll do is let's say we have a set.
Well at in this set, I want to add an element.
Correct?
Correct.
It means of these already said.
And I know what is the maximum value of that particular set as respect to this question.
So this set, you don't have to worry about how is that calculated or anything, because that's all
the people say we calculated for our particular problem and dividing to some problems and we ask it
to calculate it in the same fashion.
So let's talk about this case when I already have a set.
And I want to add X to that particular set.
Correct.
That means.
Okay.
Let me write it.
Did hear.
S is a sect which contains some rabbits.
So it not necessarily be the last.
For example, what I mean is, let's see, under three, four, five is a set rate.
What is its maximum?
Best value is being calculated, right?
It's already been calculated because when we do that, I don't have to worry about it.
I'm just saying, what if I add six to the in the same oval?
My answer change eight.
So yeah.
Let let me just keep let's just keep it hidden.
Now let's say I'm adding X to this said.
Right.
So there are two things.
What is the first thing?
The first thing is that if I start a new set, if I start a new group.
New group Phoenix.
Right.
And the second thing is ADD.
Ex in the.
Previous group.
PBS group.
As.
Eight.
What does this mean now?
Indirectly, when I'm acting as when I'm acting x2 s.
There are two things happening here.
So.
Okay.
So this is this.
Which is one, two, three, four, five.
Right.
And if I want to add six into the set now, include the six that I read.
Also, entertainment is the best value or the best grouping possible.
So what?
So I have two options.
Eight.
The first option is that I say just go and find out what whatever was the best value of this service.
And I say I start I'm starting a new group with six.
Correct.
And the second thing can be you tell me that.
If I figured out the best possible answer for one, two, three, four, five.
Let's say the best answer came from this grouping that is 1 to 3 as one group and four or five as the
last group.
Correct.
So this is very possible because we have and we have two things.
Okay.
Let me write it.
We have two things here.
First is the value or let's say the max value of S.
Max value of.
S.
I mean, it's the answer office.
They basically if they say, tell me what is the best answer?
The second thing here is that the.
That or instead.
Let's see, the last grouping.
The last.
Grouping.
I'll just keep maintain I just maintain these two things which will give me give us the final answer
rate because we can see that max value of any set s dash which is nothing but as and in fact I want
to add a particular value to that particular set.
Eight.
So two options right at the start.
A new group with this is.
And in this case, we had this.
What?
Give me whatever the best possible answer was.
Pretty.
One, two, three, four, five.
And do something and start a new group with six.
So we'll we'll move on to the values later, whatever the values it contains.
But just try to understand all the options that I have.
The second option here is why don't I add six into the previous group I'm in, the last group of previous
said, which is one, two, three, four, five, eight.
So that group can be any group we don't know.
It depends on the value of that particular set.
Now, as we can see here, over here, we have two options as to the max value.
And the second is a large grouping of X.
Let's try to, you know, maintain a balance.
We're doing the let's try to refine them and let's try to get the new values.
So the first one is what is the max value of s?
Basically right now we're talking world s dash.
Correct.
So.
So what would be the max value of dish?
The max value of x as dish now or lets in the new value of his dish.
If I start a new group with x will be very simple.
That is whatever was the max value of.
S because here you can see if I'm starting a new group for this particular guy, X becomes the new group.
Correct.
And if this becomes a new group, is there any value that's being added?
No, because it's alone in that group.
There is no combination that's taking place.
Basically, I'm starting a new group with X eight, so max value of whatever s was there plus zero.
That is the max of his debt in this first case.
And what is that grouping?
Let's say last through, now that I have the last group there, now that I have now is nothing but X.
Because I'm starting a new group with six.
But this is the first case.
For the second case, second cases, and according to the previous group, a group of as many.
If I want to add eggs into the previous group of eggs, what I want is what will be the new max value.
The max value will be nothing but whatever was the max value of s whatever was there of previous set.
Now, okay, let me give you an example.
Now let's see this was this set as and let's its last grouping was four comma five I'm I want to add
six into the last group and we all we have, we are already maintaining whatever is the value of last
group.
So basically we know what a, what elements are there in the last six eight.
So I know we can see four and five are the elements which are inelastic.
So if I have these two elements in the last set and I want to add six into this, it is instead of,
you know, starting a new set with six because that's the first case.
Eight If I want to start a new set with six, this becomes the case for comma five and six, and I have
the values stored.
Of course, we are always calculating value.
So this is the first case that I've discussed here.
Now the second case is if I want to add six into the previous group, so what it becomes, it becomes
this.
Or five and six.
So if I want to add this value into this previous set and what will be the max value, what will the
total value that I have now, the total value that I have now will be the.
Biggest value that is, let's call it.
I have added a max here.
Let's just call it total value.
Total value of that set, eight are total max value.
Both of them works just ignored.
Exciting max volume the max value of the previous set.
Rick Maxwell you the set is whatever was already there.
Plus now I'm just adding six into the last set.
Correct?
Six.
Is it just being added in the lawsuit?
A plus.
This, which is of a guy that I'm adding and all the elements which are in the last eight video belongs
to last.
Because right now I'm I'm trying to explain to the last group.
So if I want to actually do the large probabilistic now this X has to be compatible with four also with
five also, and I just add their values into my new value.
So here I have two things now.
Okay, let's come back here.
Yeah.
So Max always becomes max value express XD, which is.
And J belongs to this last group.
Whatever was the last group of s Rachel here we are tracking OU values continuously max value in large
group max value and Oscar.
Eric and the next one.
And the next thing for this case, that is the last group.
What will be the last group now updated?
Last group after adding x?
The last group now will be nothing but whatever was the last group.
Let's let me write it.
Last group.
Yeah.
Last group of s less.
The current guy that I'm going to add X in this and I'll do this for all the values of x, right?
So if I ever said s and I know that I have one, two, three, four, five value in it, and the total
number of people, total number of rabbit here are ten.
But in this one, if I try to add six, I'll try to add.
So when I tried to add eight a light to a nine, died to a ten and so on to calculate all my sets.
Correct.
So that's how we do when we are talking about subjects, we try to place all the values and we all know
that the ordering also matters.
That means in the first place, it's not necessary.
But it can be.
It can be true.
It can start with anything.
Correct.
The ordering matters.
So.
We'll just try to formulate all possible subsets by adding a particular element X in the previous set.
And when we are trying to add that element X in the previous set, we'll just have two options.
Either start a new group with X or add X into the previous group, previous best group that was there
of D, s and whatever from both these values gives me the max value.
I'll take that because we know this can be negative, right?
If something can be negative, it won't always be greater than zero.
If that can be negative, we have to take a take the max value of both of them.
Eight.
So.
Okay, so let's make one migrant tree so that you will understand what's happening.
So let's all start with the initial set and let's I've only three values.
So initially, what are my values of?
Okay.
Let's.
Let's take these values only into consideration.
So we have three.
I don't mind if the video is a little lengthy, but I just want you to understand what's going on.
If you already saw the elevator problem from the individual with my section, then it becomes very easy
for you to understand this.
So we have three.
So this is the HD values 20012012 and three gross three.
Well, so I have what is my set?
I have this set of one, two and three right now or let's say zero, one, two.
Zero one into eight in.
I'm starting within.
Empty set.
And the last grouping contains zero elements.
The last grouping is nothing more to set.
Eight.
So let's go.
Let me call it a fight.
It will go a little.
Zero and fight.
This is my initial case.
So here I have a beer.
The first the first part of it represents the max value that I'm talking about max value.
And the second part of it represents.
The last group, last group, which is a set eight.
And you all know, whenever I'm trying to restore respect sect and the values are very less, I can
make this larger group as an integer.
But if they're in the red some better that needs do over the elements in their particular classic.
Very well that's an optimization.
We will discuss that later.
But right now, let's focus on the making of the values.
Eight.
Now let's talk about adding one.
Adding zero zero again to this particular.
Said they.
So if I want to zero in this, that means what will be my new set?
It will be zero.
That means my last group is zero.
Right?
Because I've added zero to the empty set and we all know that the sum will be zero.
Only the total maximum value.
Correct.
So here I had two options.
Start a new group with zero added in the last group.
Basically both the options are the same because the last group was right.
Now I have two options again.
Um.
Yeah.
So the second option is that.
Now I can also add one into the last group eight to let me add one into the last group.
Again, the total sum value will be zero because one is alone in the group.
And similarly, I can also add two into my grouping right now.
Zero comma to end this note.
Now.
Let's move forward right here.
Are you again?
See, I've already added zero in to my last group and I know that.
Zero is already set.
Correct.
So this is right now.
What I can do is I can try to add one into this last update.
Let's start with one here.
There are two options and I'll include one into the last setting.
That is the last group that I use.
Or I can start one as a new group.
Correct.
Getting two options as I'm adding one with the large group that is which contains zero or I'm adding
one independently, I'm saying now start a new group with one.
Right?
What happens now?
What is the maximum value if I want to add 120?
So we all know that one should be compatible with zero inverter compatible values of zero gamma one.
It is ten.
So here the max maximum becomes ten.
And in this case I'm starting a new value with one.
The max remains as it is because now there are individual elements.
Similarly.
What happens in this case that I can start a new group.
Let's start with zero here.
Okay, let's start with a zero.
We also have to add two in this.
Right.
So in this case, where we have zero, we have added one.
But we also have to try to win this.
Correct.
So before moving to the next part, let's start with two here.
So again, if I tried to in this particular grouping, what happens?
I have two options right there.
Zero and two are together or zero is alone and two is also alone.
So what are the maximum values that I get?
If 002 are together, then zero and two should be compatible.
So the maximum loses this 20 and.
If there are alone, it is only right.
Similarly, the same thing will happen for this particular tree, this particular subject.
I have one in the.
I cannot do it and I cannot read zero.
Similarly for this, I cannot zero.
And I cannot say at one rate.
And then again.
Now let's move forward.
Yeah.
So I just stick to this particular guy here.
So what happens now?
I'm going to do this right.
Two options.
Add there.
Add to.
It would be.
Existing group, which is, you know, one and two or whatever was the existing group start a new group
with.
Correct.
If I start a new group too, what happens?
The values remain the same.
And as it is because ten was existing earlier I started a new group that is empty, so that contains
only one element so we don't have to add any other value.
The second part of here is that if I have if I am adding to the existing group which contained the zero
and one nature two and I should be compatible with zero and two should be compatible with one.
If two is compatible with zero, we have 20 and if two is compatible with one, also it is plus minus
two.
Basically it is minority.
If I add two into the previous group for ten minus it is -90.
Correct.
And I hope you are able to see this.
Now, here, what we what we can see is we have all the three elements which is growing into Israel.
If I have all these three elements into my third, then.
You only little.
This is ten, right?
And here we have nine B.
So what is the maximum value?
It is ten.
And also will have two more options here.
If I if I add two with a new group or if I add two in the one that means this, which is zero one,
two and eight.
Or if I say zero one and add two here, in this case, what will be the value?
It is zero plus two and one if I want to, to be compatible with one.
What I have is minus.
And so this will also give me the best answer.
I hope you are seeing that how this B unfolds and how we are calculating that.
What is the previous group we have already stored?
What is the previous group?
C There can be multiple previous group.
For example, in this case you saw it.
I have two groups.
It is zero and one that I know I want.
You know, I won't handle the case when I have to add it into the previous to previous group.
That means I'm adding two into this one, not in the zero, because that is a handle on the other part
of the.
So we'll just only keep track of the last group that is formed.
Not every group that is one that will become very tricky for us.
So if we just keep track of the last group that we have on, we can simply store it as a beat mask.
This is the group that form.
Now try to add this particular guy into this particular group.
Correct.
So in the next video, I ultimately called the solution to this and it's very simple.
I would just suggest you why don't you go ahead writing recursive solution and memorize it.
Eight.
So see in the next part.
Thank you.